## Lecture 10
### Network Flow
The definition of flow is as follows:
- Directed graph $G(V,E)$
- each edge has a capacity $C_e\ge 0$
- Source node $s$, Sink node $t$
- Flow $f$ is a function from $E$ to $\mathbb{R}$, subject to the following constraints:
  - Capacity constraint: $0\le f(e)\le C_e$
  - Flow conservation: $\sum_{e\in\delta^{+}(v)}f(e)=\sum_{e\in\delta^{-}(v)}f(e)$ for all $v\in V-\{s,t\}$
#### Max Flow Problem
The **Max Flow** problem is to maximize 
$$V(f)=\sum_{e \text{ out of }s}f(e)$$
##### S-T Cut
For a cut $C=(C_s,C_t)$, we define the value capacity of the cut as 
$$V(C)\sum_{u\in C_s,v\in C_t}C_{uv}$$
**max-flow minicut THM** claims that $$\min_{C\text{ is a cut }}V(C)=\max_{f\text{ is a flow }V(f)}$$

##### Ford-Fulkerson Algorithm
For a flow $f$, we define the residual graph $G_f$ to be the graph that
-  share the same vertex set and edge set with $G$
- The capacity of $e$ in $G_f$ is $C_e-f(e)$ for $e\in E$
- Moreover, for arbitrary edge $e=(u,v)\in E$ such that $f(e)<C_e$, we create a new edge $e'=(v,u)$ with capacity in $G_f$ of $f(e)$, and call it a **backward edge**, and call $e$ itself a **forward edge**.

The algorithm is to push flows into $f$ and update the residual graph until it's impossible to push flows anymore. More precisely, initialize $f$ to $e\mapsto 0$ at first. Then we repeat the following process:
- Find a path from $s$ to $t$ in $G_f$ and let $\delta$ be the minimum capacity along this path.
- Update $f$ for edges along the path: $f(e)\leftarrow f(e)+\delta$ for forward edges, $f(e)\leftarrow f(e)-\delta$ for backward edges.
- update $G_f$.
- If there doesn't exist a path from $s$ to $t$ in $G_f$, then output $f$.

Here we show that ***Ford-Fulkerson*** algorithm is feasible, Note that *FF* algorithm is not necessarily terminate but we can prove it with the assumption of integer capacities. Note that the **time complexity** of this algorithm is $O(|E|\sum_{e}C_e)$, which is a pseudo-polynomial time.

**Feasibility** Denote that $f$ is the flow obtained by the FF algorithm. Suppose that $S\subseteq V$ be the set contains all the vertices that can be reached from $s$ in $G_f$. Therefore we have that 
$$V(f)=\sum_{(s,u)\in E}f(s,u)=f^{\text{out}}(S)-f^{\text{in}}(S)=f^\text{out}(S)=V(S,V-S).$$
Therefore, consider that $V(f)\le V(C_s,C_t)$ for arbitrary $f,C$, we deduce that $V(f)=\min_{f'\text{ is a flow}}V(f')=\min_{C\text{ is a cut}}V(C)=V(S,V-S)$, hence that $f$ is a max flow.

**Note** that FF algorithm works with any initial flow $f$, and the algorithm terminates iff the current flow is a max flow.
#### Bipartite Matching
#### Circulation Problem
This problem is similar with the max flow problem. There are differences as follows:
- multiple sources and sinks: There is a demand for every node $v$: $d_v=f^\text{in}(v)-f^\text{out}(v)$, $v$ is a source iff $d_v<0$ and $v$ is a sink iff $d_v>0$.
- capacity constraint: $f(e)\in[l_e,C_e]$
- The goal is to find a feasible flow/circulation

The algorithm is easy: We firstly get rid of the capacity constraints by simply minus $l_e$ from $C_e$ and obtain new demands. Therefore we can solve this problem by adding super source and super sink, applying the max-flow problem.