## Lecture 14
### Mixing of Markow Chains
Denote that $P$ is the transition matrix of Symmetric Markov Chain. Stationary distribution $\pi$ satisfy $\pi P=\pi$.

$q^{(t)}$ is defined to be $q^{(0)}P^t$, where $q=q^(0)$ is the initial distribution.

**Total vanational distance:** $d_{TV}(a,b)=\frac{1}{2}||a-b||_1$

**Mxing time:** $T(\epsilon)=\sup_q\min\{t\mid d_{TV}(q^{(t)},\pi)\le \epsilon\}$

**Theorem:** $T(\epsilon)\le O(\frac{\ln N+\ln(1/\epsilon)}{1-\lambda_{max}})$, where $\lambda_{max}$ is the modulus of the largest eigenvalue of $P$. Notice that $\pi=(1/N,\cdots,1/N)$.

*proof:* $P=\sum_{i=1}^N \lambda_iv_iv_i^{t}$, where $v_i$s are orthonormal basis, there is fact that $\lambda_{1}=1$ and $v_1=(\frac{1}{\sqrt{N}}, \cdots,\frac{1}{\sqrt{N}})$. Thus if we denote that $q^{(0)}=\sum c_iv_i$, where $c_i=<q^{(0)},v_i>$, then $q^{(t)}=\pi+\sum_{i=2}^N c_i\lambda_i^tv_i$

Therefore
$$||q^{(t)}-\pi||_1\le\sqrt{N}||\sum_{i=2}^Nc_i\lambda _i^t v_i||_2=\sqrt{N\sum_{i=1}^Nc_i^2\lambda_i^{2t}}\le \sqrt{N}\lambda_{max}^t||q^{(0)}||_1$$

### Network Design Game

There is a directed graph $G$ where each edge has a cost $C_e$. There are $k$ player, and player $i$ is required to find a path from $s_i$ to $t_i$. The strategy profile is $P=(P_1,\cdots, P_k)$, and the cost for the $i$ th player is 
$$\sum_{e\in P_i}\frac{C_e}{\#(P_j\text{ that contains }e)}$$
The social cost is $\sum_{i=1}^k{P_i}$

**Theorem:** There is a Nash equilibrium in this game such that the social cost of the NE is $\Theta(\log k)$ times larger than the optimal social cost.

**Price of stability:** $\text{PoS}=\frac{C(\text{best NE})}{C(\text{social optimal})}$

**Price of Anarchy:** $\text{PoA}=\frac{C(\text{worse NE})}{C(\text{social optimal})}$

**Theorem:** $\text{PoS}= O(\log k)$

*proof:* We repeatly heldo **best response dynamics(BRD)** from the socail optimal. 

**Potential function** $\Phi(P)=\sum_{e\in E}{C_e}{\cdot H(x_e)}$, where $x_e$ indicates the number of players that use edge $e$ in $P$, and $H(x)=1+\frac{1}{2}+\cdots+\frac{1}{x}$. We are going to show that this function changes monotonically during the repeat BRD process. This is because $$C_i(P_i,P_{-i})-C_i(P'_i,P_{-i})=\Phi(P_i,P_{-i})-\Phi(P'_i,P_{-i})$$
this supports that the BRD process finally ternimate at a NE state.

Also, notice that 
$$C(NE)=C(P^{(t)})<\Phi(P^{(t)})\le \Phi(P^{(0)})\le H(k)C(P^{(0)})$$ which implies that $\text{PoS}=O(\log k)$

Note that the PoS for undirected graph can be significantly improved to $O(1)$

### Machine scheduling problem

#### Special LP

Recall the LP method that can solve machine scheduling problem:
- $\sum_{j=1}^n(P_{ij}x_{ij})<T$ for arbitrary machine $i$
- $\sum_{i=1}^m x_{ij}=1$, for arbitrary job $j$
- Rounding: $x_{ij}=0$ if $P_{ij}>T$



<!-- If the constraint of a LP problem is 
$$Ax\le b$$
where $A\in\mathbb{R}^{m\times n}$. A vertex solution has at most $m$ nonzero entries. 

Suppose that in a machine scheduling problem, the graph is sparse -->



We construct a bipartite graph $G$ between machines and jobs, and connect $i,j$ when $x_{ij}>0$. We claim that for $A$ is a subset of machine and $B$ is a subset of jobs, then there are at most $|A|+|B|$ edges among $A$ and $B$ in the graph. This is because if we fix the variables other than $x_{ij}$, $i\in A, j\in B$, then the constraints for such $x_{ij}$s is a sub-LP problem and they must reach a vertex solution. Therefore, the number of edges among $A$ and $B$, i.e. the number of nonzero entries does not exceed the number of constraints, which is $|A|+|B|$. 

As a result, $G$ is a collection of trees.

Here we show how to achieve an approximation factor of $2$ for a tree. We simply assume that this tree rooted at a machine. 
- If a job is a leaf, it is assigned to its parent machine
- If a job is a inner node, it is assigned to one of its children.

Therefore, denote that $j'$ is the parent of machine $i$, considered that $x_{ij}=1$ for leaf $j$ such that its parent is $i$. 
$$\text{load of }i\le \sum_{j\text{ is children of }i}P_{ij}+P_{ij'}=\sum_{j\text{ is children of }i}P_{ij}x_{ij}+P_{ij'}\le T+T=2T$$

Another proof for homework 