# Lecture 3

## Dijkstra Algorithm

**Goal: to output the shortest road from $v$ to arbitrary vertex $u$.**

The algorithm is: to maintain a set $A$ contains vertices that have been detected. Use $d(u)$ to record the recent shortest road from $v$ to it. In each iteration, select a vertex $w$ from $V-A$ which has minimum $d(w)$ and push it into $A$, and then $\forall w\rightarrow x$, let $d(x)$ be $\max\{d(x),d(w)+(w\rightarrow x)\}$.

**Proof:** Let $v_1,\dots,v_n$ be the inserting sequence. It's obvious that $d(v_i)$ records the minimum cost from $v$ to $v_i$ via vertices with an index less than $k$. Let $v_k$ be the one with the minimum index such that the shortest road from $v$ to it has a length less than $d(v_k)$, then this shorter road must contain at least 1 vertex with an index greater than $k$. In the other hand, because $d(v_1)\le d(v_2)\le d(v_3)\le\dots\le d(v_n)$ and for arbitrary $i$, $d(v_i)$ is getting less and less, so the real shortest road from $v$ to $v_k$ can't contain vertices with index greater than $k$.

## Prim Algorithm

**Goal: To output MST**

The algorithm maintains a set $A$ and initializes it with a unique vertex. In each iteration, push the vertex with the shortest edge to $A$ into $A$.

**Proof:** Similar to Kruskal's algorithm.

**Algorithm Analyze:** For any vertex inserting process, it costs $O(d \cdot \log n)$ times to maintain the heap contains minimum distance from vertices to $A$, where $d$ represents the degree of the inserting vertex. Therefore, the algorithm costs $O(m \log n)$ applying heap.

## Kruskal's Algorithm

**Goal: To output MST**

The algorithm uses a greedy method, sorting all edges with increasing weights and pushing them into $F$ one by one, skipping the edges that generate a cycle after inserting.

**Proof:** Proof that the edge set $E_k$, which is the set contains the first $k$ edges been inserted, satisfied that there exists a MST $T_k$ contains all the edges in $E_k$ by induction on $k$. $k\rightarrow k+1$, on the unique cycle in $T_k+e_{k+1}$, select an edge that is not in $T_k$ and delete it, then $T_k$ becomes a tree with sum of weights less than $T_k$, which contradicts with the fact that $T_k$ is a MST.

**Algorithm Analysis:** The sorting cost is $O(m \log m)$ using heap sort, and then we use DSU to maintain a forest, allowing us to determine whether two vertices are in the same component in $O(1)$ time. The algorithm has a time complexity of $O(m \log m)$.

## Huffman Codes

**Goal:** Given $n$ weights, need to give $n$ 0-1 codes to minimize $\sum_{i=1}^{n}\text{length}(c_i)w_i$.

The algorithm is in each iteration, select two nodes with the least weights and let them be brothers in the tree.

## Priority Queue and Heap

You can use the Fibonacci heap to optimize the Prim or Dijkstra algorithm.